#!perl

our $DATE = '2017-11-24'; # DATE
our $VERSION = '0.621'; # VERSION

use 5.010001;
use strict;
use warnings;

use Perinci::CmdLine::Any;

# workaround for current bug
$ENV{LOG} //= 1;

Perinci::CmdLine::Any->new(
    url => '/Git/Bunch/',
    subcommands => {
        ls     => { url => '/Git/Bunch/list_bunch_contents' },
        check  => { url => '/Git/Bunch/check_bunch'  },
        sync   => { url => '/Git/Bunch/sync_bunch'   },
        exec   => { url => '/Git/Bunch/exec_bunch'   },
    },
    log => 1,
)->run;

1;
# ABSTRACT: Manage gitbunch directory (directory which contain git repos)
# PODNAME: gitbunch

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

gitbunch - Manage gitbunch directory (directory which contain git repos)

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.621 of gitbunch (from Perl distribution Git-Bunch), released on 2017-11-24.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

To check the status of bunch (will do a 'git status' for each git repo inside
the bunch and report which repos are 'unclean', e.g. needs commit, has untracked
files, etc):

 % gitbunch check ~/repos

To synchronize bunch to another (will do a 'git pull/push' for each git repo,
and do an rsync for everything else):

 % gitbunch sync ~/repos /mnt/laptop/repos

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A I<gitbunch> or I<bunch> directory is just a term I coined to refer to a
directory which contains, well, a bunch of git repositories. It can also contain
other stuffs like files and non-git repositories (but they must be dot-dirs).
Example:

 repos/            -> a gitbunch dir
   proj1/          -> a git repo
   proj2/          -> ditto
   perl-Git-Bunch/ -> ditto
   ...
   .videos/        -> a non-git dir
   README.txt      -> file

If you organize your data as a bunch, you can easily check the status of your
repositories and synchronize your data between two locations, e.g. your
computer's harddisk and an external/USB harddisk.

A little bit of history: after I<git> got popular, in 2008 I started using it for
software projects, replacing Subversion and Bazaar. Soon, I moved everything*)
to git repositories: notes & writings, Emacs .org agenda files, configuration,
even temporary downloads/browser-saved HTML files. I put the repositories inside
I<$HOME/repos> and add symlinks to various places for conveniences. Thus, the
I<$HOME/repos> became the first bunch directory.

*) everything except large media files (e.g. recorded videos) which I put in
dot-dirs inside the bunch.

See also L<rsybak>, which I wrote to backup everything else.

=head1 SUBCOMMANDS

=head2 B<check>

Check status of git repositories inside gitbunch directory.

Will perform a 'git status' for each git repositories inside the bunch and
report which repositories are clean/unclean.

Will die if can't chdir into bunch or git repository.


=head2 B<exec>

Execute a command for each repo in the bunch.

For each git repository in the bunch, will chdir to it and execute specified
command.


=head2 B<ls>

List contents inside gitbunch directory.

Will list each repo or non-repo dir/file.


=head2 B<sync>

Synchronize bunch to another bunch.

For each git repository in the bunch, will perform a 'git pull/push' for each
branch. If repository in destination doesn't exist, it will be rsync-ed first
from source. When 'git pull' fails, will exit to let you fix the problem
manually.

For all other non-repo file/directory, will simply synchronize by one-way rsync.
But, for added safety, will first check the newest mtime (mtime of the newest
file or subdirectory) between source and target is checked first. If target
contains the newer newest mtime, rsync-ing for that non-repo file/dir will be
aborted. Note: you can use C<--skip-mtime-check> option to skip this check.

=head1 OPTIONS

C<*> marks required options.

=head2 Common options

=over

=item B<--config-path>=I<filename>

Set path to configuration file.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--config-profile>=I<s>

Set configuration profile to use.

=item B<--debug>

Shortcut for --log-level=debug.

=item B<--format>=I<s>

Choose output format, e.g. json, text.

Default value:

 undef

=item B<--help>, B<-h>, B<-?>

Display help message and exit.

=item B<--json>

Set output format to json.

=item B<--log-level>=I<s>

Set log level.

=item B<--naked-res>

When outputing as JSON, strip result envelope.

Default value:

 0

By default, when outputing as JSON, the full enveloped result is returned, e.g.:

    [200,"OK",[1,2,3],{"func.extra"=>4}]

The reason is so you can get the status (1st element), status message (2nd
element) as well as result metadata/extra result (4th element) instead of just
the result (3rd element). However, sometimes you want just the result, e.g. when
you want to pipe the result for more post-processing. In this case you can use
`--naked-res` so you just get:

    [1,2,3]


=item B<--no-config>

Do not use any configuration file.

=item B<--no-env>

Do not read environment for default options.

=item B<--quiet>

Shortcut for --log-level=error.

=item B<--subcommands>

List available subcommands.

=item B<--trace>

Shortcut for --log-level=trace.

=item B<--verbose>

Shortcut for --log-level=info.

=item B<--version>, B<-v>

Display program's version and exit.

=back

=head2 Options for subcommand check

=over

=item B<--exclude-files>

Exclude files from processing.

This only applies to `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch` and
`exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-non-git-dirs>

Exclude non-git dirs from processing.

This only applies to and `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch`
and `exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-repos-json>=I<s>

Exclude some repos from processing (JSON-encoded).

See C<--exclude-repos>.

=item B<--exclude-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to exclude.

=item B<--exclude-repos>=I<s@>

Exclude some repos from processing.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--include-files>

Alias for --no-exclude-files.

See C<--exclude-files>.

=item B<--include-non-git-dirs>

Alias for --no-exclude-non-git-dirs.

See C<--exclude-non-git-dirs>.

=item B<--include-repos-json>=I<s>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed (JSON-encoded).

See C<--include-repos>.

=item B<--include-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to include.

=item B<--include-repos>=I<s@>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--min-repo-access-time>=I<s>

Limit to repos that are accessed (mtime, committed, status-ed, pushed) recently.

This can significantly reduce the time to process the bunch if you are only
interested in recent repos (which is most of the time unless you are doing a
full check/sync).


=item B<--repo>=I<s>

Only process a single repo.

=item B<--source>=I<s>*

Directory to check.

=back

=head2 Options for subcommand exec

=over

=item B<--command>=I<s>*

Command to execute.

=item B<--exclude-files>

Exclude files from processing.

This only applies to `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch` and
`exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-non-git-dirs>

Exclude non-git dirs from processing.

This only applies to and `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch`
and `exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-repos-json>=I<s>

Exclude some repos from processing (JSON-encoded).

See C<--exclude-repos>.

=item B<--exclude-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to exclude.

=item B<--exclude-repos>=I<s@>

Exclude some repos from processing.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--include-files>

Alias for --no-exclude-files.

See C<--exclude-files>.

=item B<--include-non-git-dirs>

Alias for --no-exclude-non-git-dirs.

See C<--exclude-non-git-dirs>.

=item B<--include-repos-json>=I<s>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed (JSON-encoded).

See C<--include-repos>.

=item B<--include-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to include.

=item B<--include-repos>=I<s@>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--min-repo-access-time>=I<s>

Limit to repos that are accessed (mtime, committed, status-ed, pushed) recently.

This can significantly reduce the time to process the bunch if you are only
interested in recent repos (which is most of the time unless you are doing a
full check/sync).


=item B<--repo>=I<s>

Only process a single repo.

=item B<--source>=I<s>*

Directory to check.

=back

=head2 Options for subcommand ls

=over

=item B<--detail>, B<-l>

Show detailed record for each entry instead of just its name.

=item B<--exclude-files>

Exclude files from processing.

This only applies to `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch` and
`exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-non-git-dirs>

Exclude non-git dirs from processing.

This only applies to and `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch`
and `exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-repos-json>=I<s>

Exclude some repos from processing (JSON-encoded).

See C<--exclude-repos>.

=item B<--exclude-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to exclude.

=item B<--exclude-repos>=I<s@>

Exclude some repos from processing.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--include-files>

Alias for --no-exclude-files.

See C<--exclude-files>.

=item B<--include-non-git-dirs>

Alias for --no-exclude-non-git-dirs.

See C<--exclude-non-git-dirs>.

=item B<--include-repos-json>=I<s>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed (JSON-encoded).

See C<--include-repos>.

=item B<--include-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to include.

=item B<--include-repos>=I<s@>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--min-repo-access-time>=I<s>

Limit to repos that are accessed (mtime, committed, status-ed, pushed) recently.

This can significantly reduce the time to process the bunch if you are only
interested in recent repos (which is most of the time unless you are doing a
full check/sync).


=item B<--repo>=I<s>

Only process a single repo.

=item B<--sort>=I<s>

Order entries.

Valid values:

 ["name","-name","mtime","-mtime","commit_time","-commit_time","status_time","-status_time","pull_time","-pull_time"]

=item B<--source>=I<s>*

Directory to check.

=back

=head2 Options for subcommand sync

=over

=item B<--backup>

Whether doing backup to target.

This setting lets you express that you want to perform synchronizing to a backup
target, and that you do not do work on the target. Thus, you do not care about
uncommitted or untracked files/dirs in the target repos (might happen if you
also do periodic copying of repos to backup using cp/rsync). When this setting
is turned on, the function will first do a `git clean -f -d` (to delete
untracked files/dirs) and then `git checkout .` (to discard all uncommitted
changes). This setting will also implicitly turn on `create_bare` setting
(unless that setting has been explicitly enabled/disabled).


=item B<--create-bare-target>, B<--use-bare>

Whether to create bare git repo when target does not exist.

When target repo does not exist, gitbunch can either copy the source repo using
`rsync` (the default, if this setting is undefined), or it can create target
repo with `git init --bare` (if this setting is set to 1), or it can create
target repo with `git init` (if this setting is set to 0).

Bare git repositories contain only contents of the .git folder inside the
directory and no working copies of your source files.

Creating bare repos are apt for backup purposes since they are more
space-efficient.

Non-repos will still be copied/rsync-ed.


=item B<--delete-branch>

Whether to delete branches in dest repos not existing in source repos.

=item B<--exclude-files>

Exclude files from processing.

This only applies to `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch` and
`exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-non-git-dirs>

Exclude non-git dirs from processing.

This only applies to and `sync_bunch` operations. Operations like `check_bunch`
and `exec_bunch` already ignore these and only operate on git repos.


=item B<--exclude-repos-json>=I<s>

Exclude some repos from processing (JSON-encoded).

See C<--exclude-repos>.

=item B<--exclude-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to exclude.

=item B<--exclude-repos>=I<s@>

Exclude some repos from processing.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--include-files>

Alias for --no-exclude-files.

See C<--exclude-files>.

=item B<--include-non-git-dirs>

Alias for --no-exclude-non-git-dirs.

See C<--exclude-non-git-dirs>.

=item B<--include-repos-json>=I<s>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed (JSON-encoded).

See C<--include-repos>.

=item B<--include-repos-pat>=I<s>

Specify regex pattern of repos to include.

=item B<--include-repos>=I<s@>

Specific git repos to sync, if not specified all repos in the bunch will be processed.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--min-repo-access-time>=I<s>

Limit to repos that are accessed (mtime, committed, status-ed, pushed) recently.

This can significantly reduce the time to process the bunch if you are only
interested in recent repos (which is most of the time unless you are doing a
full check/sync).


=item B<--repo>=I<s>

Only process a single repo.

=item B<--rsync-del>

Whether to use --del rsync option.

When rsync-ing non-repos, by default `--del` option is not used for more safety
because rsync is a one-way action. To add rsync `--del` option, enable this


=item B<--rsync-opt-maintain-ownership>

Whether or not, when rsync-ing from source, we use -a (= -rlptgoD) or -rlptD (-a minus -go).

Sometimes using -a results in failure to preserve permission modes on
sshfs-mounted filesystem, while -rlptD succeeds, so by default we don't maintain
ownership. If you need to maintain ownership (e.g. you run as root and the repos
are not owned by root), turn this option on.


=item B<--skip-mtime-check>, B<-M>

Whether or not, when rsync-ing non-repos, we check mtime first.

By default when we rsync a non-repo file/dir from source to target and both
exist, to protect wrong direction of sync-ing we find the newest mtime in source
or dir (if dir, then the dir is recursively traversed to find the file/subdir
with the newest mtime). If target contains the newer mtime, the sync for that
non-repo file/dir is aborted. If you want to force the rsync anyway, use this
option.


=item B<--source>=I<s>*

Directory to check.

=item B<--target>=I<s>*

Destination bunch.

=back

=head1 COMPLETION

This script has shell tab completion capability with support for several
shells.

=head2 bash

To activate bash completion for this script, put:

 complete -C gitbunch gitbunch

in your bash startup (e.g. F<~/.bashrc>). Your next shell session will then
recognize tab completion for the command. Or, you can also directly execute the
line above in your shell to activate immediately.

It is recommended, however, that you install modules using L<cpanm-shcompgen>
which can activate shell completion for scripts immediately.

=head2 tcsh

To activate tcsh completion for this script, put:

 complete gitbunch 'p/*/`gitbunch`/'

in your tcsh startup (e.g. F<~/.tcshrc>). Your next shell session will then
recognize tab completion for the command. Or, you can also directly execute the
line above in your shell to activate immediately.

It is also recommended to install L<shcompgen> (see above).

=head2 other shells

For fish and zsh, install L<shcompgen> as described above.

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

This script can read configuration files. Configuration files are in the format of L<IOD>, which is basically INI with some extra features.

By default, these names are searched for configuration filenames (can be changed using C<--config-path>): F<~/.config/gitbunch.conf>, F<~/gitbunch.conf>, or F</etc/gitbunch.conf>.

All found files will be read and merged.

To disable searching for configuration files, pass C<--no-config>.

To put configuration for a certain subcommand only, use a section name like C<[subcommand=NAME]> or C<[SOMESECTION subcommand=NAME]>.

You can put multiple profiles in a single file by using section names like C<[profile=SOMENAME]> or C<[SOMESECTION profile=SOMENAME]> or C<[subcommand=SUBCOMMAND_NAME profile=SOMENAME]> or C<[SOMESECTION subcommand=SUBCOMMAND_NAME profile=SOMENAME]>. Those sections will only be read if you specify the matching C<--config-profile SOMENAME>.

You can also put configuration for multiple programs inside a single file, and use filter C<program=NAME> in section names, e.g. C<[program=NAME ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION program=NAME]>. The section will then only be used when the reading program matches.

Finally, you can filter a section by environment variable using the filter C<env=CONDITION> in section names. For example if you only want a section to be read if a certain environment variable is true: C<[env=SOMEVAR ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=SOMEVAR ...]>. If you only want a section to be read when the value of an environment variable has value equals something: C<[env=HOSTNAME=blink ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=HOSTNAME=blink ...]>. If you only want a section to be read when the value of an environment variable does not equal something: C<[env=HOSTNAME!=blink ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=HOSTNAME!=blink ...]>. If you only want a section to be read when an environment variable contains something: C<[env=HOSTNAME*=server ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=HOSTNAME*=server ...]>. Note that currently due to simplistic parsing, there must not be any whitespace in the value being compared because it marks the beginning of a new section filter or section name.

List of available configuration parameters:

=head2 Common for all subcommands

 format (see --format)
 log_level (see --log-level)
 naked_res (see --naked-res)

=head2 Configuration for subcommand check

 exclude_files (see --exclude-files)
 exclude_non_git_dirs (see --exclude-non-git-dirs)
 exclude_repos (see --exclude-repos)
 exclude_repos_pat (see --exclude-repos-pat)
 include_repos (see --include-repos)
 include_repos_pat (see --include-repos-pat)
 min_repo_access_time (see --min-repo-access-time)
 repo (see --repo)
 source (see --source)

=head2 Configuration for subcommand exec

 command (see --command)
 exclude_files (see --exclude-files)
 exclude_non_git_dirs (see --exclude-non-git-dirs)
 exclude_repos (see --exclude-repos)
 exclude_repos_pat (see --exclude-repos-pat)
 include_repos (see --include-repos)
 include_repos_pat (see --include-repos-pat)
 min_repo_access_time (see --min-repo-access-time)
 repo (see --repo)
 source (see --source)

=head2 Configuration for subcommand ls

 detail (see --detail)
 exclude_files (see --exclude-files)
 exclude_non_git_dirs (see --exclude-non-git-dirs)
 exclude_repos (see --exclude-repos)
 exclude_repos_pat (see --exclude-repos-pat)
 include_repos (see --include-repos)
 include_repos_pat (see --include-repos-pat)
 min_repo_access_time (see --min-repo-access-time)
 repo (see --repo)
 sort (see --sort)
 source (see --source)

=head2 Configuration for subcommand sync

 backup (see --backup)
 create_bare_target (see --create-bare-target)
 delete_branch (see --delete-branch)
 exclude_files (see --exclude-files)
 exclude_non_git_dirs (see --exclude-non-git-dirs)
 exclude_repos (see --exclude-repos)
 exclude_repos_pat (see --exclude-repos-pat)
 include_repos (see --include-repos)
 include_repos_pat (see --include-repos-pat)
 min_repo_access_time (see --min-repo-access-time)
 repo (see --repo)
 rsync_del (see --rsync-del)
 rsync_opt_maintain_ownership (see --rsync-opt-maintain-ownership)
 skip_mtime_check (see --skip-mtime-check)
 source (see --source)
 target (see --target)

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=head2 GITBUNCH_OPT => str

Specify additional command-line options.

=head1 FILES

F<~/.config/gitbunch.conf>

F<~/gitbunch.conf>

F</etc/gitbunch.conf>

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/Git-Bunch>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-Git-Bunch>.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Git-Bunch>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<rsybak>.

L<http://joeyh.name/code/mr/>. You probably want to use this instead. I<mr> supports other control version
software aside from git, doesn't restrict you to put all your repos in one
directory, supports more operations, and has been developed since 2007. Had I
known about I<mr>, I probably wouldn't have started gitbunch. On the other hand,
gitbunch is simpler (I think), doesn't require any config file, and can
copy/sync files/directories not under source control. I mainly use gitbunch to
quickly: 1) check whether there are any of my repositories which have
uncommitted changes; 2) synchronize (pull/push) to other locations. I put all my
data in one big gitbunch directory; I find it simpler. gitbunch works for me and
I use it daily.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 by perlancar@cpan.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
