#!/usr/bin/perl
use 5.014000;
use strict;
use warnings;

use App::Lastmsg;

App::Lastmsg::run;

__END__

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

lastmsg - last(1) semblance for your inbox

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # in ~/.lastmsgrc
  inbox:
    - /home/MGV/mail/inbox
    - /home/MGV/mail/folder
  sent:
    - /home/MGV/mail/sent
  track:
    bestfriend:
      - best@friend.com
      - best.friend@freemail.com
    someguy: SOMEGUY@cpan.org
    nobody:
      - nobody@example.com

  # in your shell
  mgv@somehost ~ $ lastmsg
  bestfriend best@friend.com  Sat 31 Dec 2016 12:34:56 EET
  someguy    SOMEGUY@cpan.org Thu 20 Nov 2016 12:00:00 EET
  nobody                      NOT FOUND

=head1 DESCRIPTION

lastmsg reads your mail folders looking for emails you exchanged with
a given set of people. Then for each person in the set it prints the
time you last received an email from or sent an email to them and the
email address used.

The script takes no arguments (the settings are taken from a
configuration file), and it prints a three-column table where the
first column is the ID of a person, the second column is the email
address last used (empty if you've never exchanged an email with that
person), and the last column is the date of last contact (or the
string C<NOT FOUND> if you've never exchanged an email). The rows are
sorted by date of last contact (with the most recently contacted
people at the top), and the people that you've never exchanged an
email with are at the end.

The configuration is in YAML format. Three keys are recognised:

=over

=item B<inbox>

The path(s) to your inbox and other incoming mail folders (a single
string or a list of strings). The C<From> field of these emails is
scanned.

If not provided, it defaults to F</var/mail/$ENV{USER}> and
F<$ENV{HOME}/Maildir/>. If USER or HOME are not in the environment,
the corresponding default directory is ignored. So on a system with
neither of these variables defined, this option will default to an
empty list.

B<NOTE:> See L<Email::FolderType> for information on how the type of a
folder is identified. In short, the suffix of the folder is analyzed:
If F</>, the format is Maildir. If F</.>, the format is MH. If F<//>,
the format is Ezmlm. Otherwise, some heuristics are checked and the
fallback is Mbox.

=item B<sent>

The path(s) to your sent and other outgoing mail folders (a single
string or a list of strings). The C<To>, C<Cc>, and C<Bcc> fields of
these emails are scanned.

If not provided, it default to an empty list. See B<NOTE:> above for
information on how the type of a folder is identified.

=item B<track>

A hash of people to track. Each entry represents a person. The key is
the ID of that person (used for display), and the value is the email
address of that person or a list of email addresses of that person.

If not provided, the script will die with an error.

=back

The configuration file can be named F<lastmsgconfig>,
F<lastmsg.config>, F<lastmsgrc>, or F<.lastmsgrc> and can be placed in
the current directory, in your home directory, in F</etc/>, and in
F</usr/local/etc/>. See L<Config::Auto> for more information.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The only recognised environment variable is B<LASTMSG_DEBUG>, which if
set to a true value causes the script to emit a lot of information on
STDERR about what it is doing.

=head1 TODO

Should handle IRC and IM logs as well, not just emails. Should have
better tests.

=head1 AUTHOR

Marius Gavrilescu, E<lt>marius@ieval.roE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2016-2017 by Marius Gavrilescu

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.24.1 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.


=cut
