$Id: README,v 1.9 2008-05-02 15:31:01 mike Exp $

*** NOTE THAT THIS IS NOT FREE OR OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE ***
Sorry about that.  See DBIServer/LICENCE.pm for details.


What are zSQLgate and Net::Z3950::DBIServer?
--------------------------------------------

zSQLgate is a Z39.50 server which has an RDBMS at its back end -- that
is, it's a gateway between Z39.50 and the relational database of your
choice.  The Perl module Net::Z3950::DBIServer provides guts of the
gateway.  Both the zSQLgate program and the Net::Z3950::DBIServer
module are included in this distribution.

The Z39.50 information retrieval protocol (now ratified as
international standard ISO 23950) is a mature and powerful protocol
used in application domains as diverse as bibliographic information,
geo-spatial mapping, museums and other cultural heritage information,
and structured vocabulary navigation.

Relational databases are a revolting relic of the 1950s, but we do
seem to be stuck with them :-)

If you have a project built on Oracle, Sybase, PostgreSQL, MySQL or
any of a seemingly infinite number of alternatives, then this module
is probably the quickest and easiest way to build a Z39.50 interface
to it.


Building and Installation
-------------------------

There are several prerequisites to building the Net::Z3950 module:
some providing the Z39.50 front-end, and some the SQL back-end.

     *	You'll need the Net::Z3950::SimpleServer module, version 0.04
	or later.  You can get it from
	http://indexdata.com/simpleserver/

     *	SimpleServer itself requires Index Data's YAZ toolkit, a set
	of C routines for manipulating, sending and receiving the
	Z39.50 data structures.  I've been using version 1.8.  You can
	find it at http://indexdata.com/yaz/

     *	You'll need the DBI module (the DataBase Independent layer)
	which is inexplicably not part of the standard Perl
	distribution, but is on CPAN.

     *	And with that, you'll need the DBD module that provides the
	driver for the particular RDBMS you're using -- for example,
	DBD::Pg if you're using PostgreSQL.  The driver modules are
	all on CPAN.

     *	In order to generate MARC records in responses, you'll need
	the MARC::Record module.

After installing any prerequisites, you know the drill:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

See examples/books/README for a small example application.


Support
-------

The first thing to do is join the zSQLgate mailing list at
http://www.indexdata.com/mailman/listinfo/zsqlgate, and discuss in
that forum any problems you may encounter.  I read this list, so I
will see your messages; but you may get better help from others who
have run into similar difficulties.

For those who require it, it's possible to buy professional, support
for this module, with well-defined support levels and response times.
See http://sql.z3950.org/zsqlgate/support/contract.html, or email me
for details.


Author
------

Mike Taylor <mike@sql.z3950.org>
	http://www.miketaylor.org.uk/
