#!perl

# Note: This script is a CLI for Riap function /App/WebSearchUtils/web_search
# and generated automatically using Perinci::CmdLine::Gen version 0.501

use 5.010001;
use strict;
use warnings;
use Log::ger;

use Perinci::CmdLine::Any;

our $AUTHORITY = 'cpan:PERLANCAR'; # AUTHORITY
our $DATE = '2022-10-10'; # DATE
our $DIST = 'App-WebSearchUtils'; # DIST
our $VERSION = '0.001'; # VERSION

my $cmdline = Perinci::CmdLine::Any->new(
    url => "/App/WebSearchUtils/web_search",
    program_name => "web-search",
    log => 1,
);

$cmdline->run;

# ABSTRACT: Open web search page in browser
# PODNAME: web-search

__END__

=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

web-search - Open web search page in browser

=head1 VERSION

This document describes version 0.001 of web-search (from Perl distribution App-WebSearchUtils), released on 2022-10-10.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<web-search> [B<--action>=I<str>|B<--open-url>|B<--print-html-link>|B<--print-org-link>|B<--print-result-html-link>|B<--print-result-link>|B<--print-result-org-link>|B<--print-url>|B<--save-html>] [B<--append>=I<str>] [B<--config-path>=I<path>|B<-c>|B<--no-config>|B<-C>] [B<--config-profile>=I<profile>|B<-P>] [B<--debug>|B<--log-level>=I<level>|B<--quiet>|B<--trace>|B<--verbose>] [B<--delay>=I<duration>] [B<--engine>=I<str>] [B<--format>=I<name>|B<--json>] [B<--max-delay>=I<duration>] [B<--min-delay>=I<duration>] [B<--(no)naked-res>] [B<--no-env>] [B<--num>=L<posint|Sah::Schema::posint>] [B<--page-result>[=I<program>]|B<--view-result>[=I<program>]] [B<--prepend>=I<str>] [B<--queries-from>=L<filename|Sah::Schema::filename>] [(B<--query>=I<str>)+|B<--queries-json>=I<json>] [B<--time-end>=I<date>] [B<--time-past>=I<str>] [B<--time-start>=I<date>] -- [I<query>] ...



See examples in the L</EXAMPLES> section.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility can save you time when you want to open multiple queries (with
added common prefix/suffix words) or specify some options like time limit. It
will formulate the search URL(s) then open them for you in browser. You can also
specify to print out the URLs instead.

Aside from standard web search, you can also generate/open other searches like
image, video, news, or map.

=head1 OPTIONS

C<*> marks required options.

=head2 Main options

=over

=item B<--action>=I<s>

What to do with the URLs.

Default value:

 "open_url"

Valid values:

 ["open_url","print_url","print_html_link","print_org_link","save_html","print_result_link","print_result_html_link","print_result_org_link"]

Instead of opening the queries in browser (C<open_url>), you can also do other
action instead.

B<Printing search URLs>: C<print_url> will print the search URL.
C<print_html_link> will print the HTML link (the <a> tag). And C<print_org_link>
will print the Org-mode link, e.g. C<[[url...][query]]>.

B<Saving search result HTMLs>: C<save_html> will first visit each search URL
(currently using L<Firefox::Marionette>) then save each result page to a file
named C<< E<lt>numE<gt>-E<lt>queryE<gt>.html >> in the current directory. Existing files will not be
overwritten; the utility will save to C<*.html.1>, C<*.html.2> and so on instead.

B<Extracting search result links>: C<print_result_link> will first will first
visit each search URL (currently using L<Firefox::Marionette>) then extract
result links and print them. C<print_result_html_link> and
C<print_result_org_link> are similar but will instead format each link as HTML
and Org link, respectively.

The C<print_result_*link> actions are not very useful for some search engines
like Google because result HTML page is obfuscated. Thus we can only extract all
links in each page instead of selecting (via DOM) only the actual search result
entry links, etc.

If you want to filter the links further by domain, path, etc. you can use
L<grep-url>.


=item B<--append>=I<s>

String to add at the end of each query.

=item B<--delay>=I<s>

Delay between opening each query.

As an alternative to the C<--delay> option, you can also use C<--min-delay> and
C<--max-delay> to set a random delay between a minimum and maximum value.


=item B<--engine>=I<s>

Search engine to use.

Default value:

 "web"

Valid values:

 ["google","google_image","google_video","google_news","google_map","bing","brave","ddg"]

=item B<--max-delay>=I<s>

Delay between opening each query.

=item B<--min-delay>=I<s>

Delay between opening each query.

As an alternative to the C<--mindelay> and C<--max-delay> options, you can also
use C<--delay> to set a constant delay between requests.


=item B<--num>=I<s>

Number of results per page.

=item B<--open-url>

Alias for --action=open_url.

See C<--action>.

=item B<--prepend>=I<s>

String to add at the beginning of each query.

=item B<--print-html-link>

Alias for --action=print_html_link.

See C<--action>.

=item B<--print-org-link>

Alias for --action=print_org_link.

See C<--action>.

=item B<--print-result-html-link>

Alias for --action=extract_links.

See C<--action>.

=item B<--print-result-link>

Alias for --action=extract_links.

See C<--action>.

=item B<--print-result-org-link>

Alias for --action=extract_links.

See C<--action>.

=item B<--print-url>

Alias for --action=print_url.

See C<--action>.

=item B<--queries-from>=I<s>

Supply queries from lines of text file (specify "-" for stdin).

=item B<--queries-json>=I<s>

See C<--query>.

Can also be specified as the 1st command-line argument and onwards.

=item B<--query>=I<s@>

Can also be specified as the 1st command-line argument and onwards.

Can be specified multiple times.

=item B<--save-html>

Alias for --action=save_html.

See C<--action>.

=back

=head2 Configuration options

=over

=item B<--config-path>=I<s>, B<-c>

Set path to configuration file.

Can actually be specified multiple times to instruct application to read from
multiple configuration files (and merge them).


=item B<--config-profile>=I<s>, B<-P>

Set configuration profile to use.

A single configuration file can contain profiles, i.e. alternative sets of
values that can be selected. For example:

 [profile=dev]
 username=foo
 pass=beaver
 
 [profile=production]
 username=bar
 pass=honey

When you specify C<--config-profile=dev>, C<username> will be set to C<foo> and
C<password> to C<beaver>. When you specify C<--config-profile=production>,
C<username> will be set to C<bar> and C<password> to C<honey>.


=item B<--no-config>, B<-C>

Do not use any configuration file.

If you specify C<--no-config>, the application will not read any configuration
file.


=back

=head2 Environment options

=over

=item B<--no-env>

Do not read environment for default options.

If you specify C<--no-env>, the application wil not read any environment
variable.


=back

=head2 Logging options

=over

=item B<--debug>

Shortcut for --log-level=debug.

=item B<--log-level>=I<s>

Set log level.

By default, these log levels are available (in order of increasing level of
importance, from least important to most): C<trace>, C<debug>, C<info>,
C<warn>/C<warning>, C<error>, C<fatal>. By default, the level is usually set to
C<warn>, which means that log statements with level C<info> and less important
levels will not be shown. To increase verbosity, choose C<info>, C<debug>, or
C<trace>.

For more details on log level and logging, as well as how new logging levels can
be defined or existing ones modified, see L<Log::ger>.


=item B<--quiet>

Shortcut for --log-level=error.

=item B<--trace>

Shortcut for --log-level=trace.

=item B<--verbose>

Shortcut for --log-level=info.

=back

=head2 Output options

=over

=item B<--format>=I<s>

Choose output format, e.g. json, text.

Default value:

 undef

Output can be displayed in multiple formats, and a suitable default format is
chosen depending on the application and/or whether output destination is
interactive terminal (i.e. whether output is piped). This option specifically
chooses an output format.


=item B<--json>

Set output format to json.

=item B<--naked-res>

When outputing as JSON, strip result envelope.

Default value:

 0

By default, when outputing as JSON, the full enveloped result is returned, e.g.:

 [200,"OK",[1,2,3],{"func.extra"=>4}]

The reason is so you can get the status (1st element), status message (2nd
element) as well as result metadata/extra result (4th element) instead of just
the result (3rd element). However, sometimes you want just the result, e.g. when
you want to pipe the result for more post-processing. In this case you can use
C<--naked-res> so you just get:

 [1,2,3]


=item B<--page-result>

Filter output through a pager.

This option will pipe the output to a specified pager program. If pager program
is not specified, a suitable default e.g. C<less> is chosen.


=item B<--view-result>

View output using a viewer.

This option will first save the output to a temporary file, then open a viewer
program to view the temporary file. If a viewer program is not chosen, a
suitable default, e.g. the browser, is chosen.


=back

=head2 Time period criteria options

=over

=item B<--time-end>=I<s>

=item B<--time-past>=I<s>

Limit time period to the past hour/24hour/week/month/year.

Valid values:

 ["hour","24hour","day","week","month","year"]

=item B<--time-start>=I<s>

=back

=head2 Other options

=over

=item B<--help>, B<-h>, B<-?>

Display help message and exit.

=item B<--version>, B<-v>

Display program's version and exit.

=back

=head1 COMPLETION

This script has shell tab completion capability with support for several
shells.

=head2 bash

To activate bash completion for this script, put:

 complete -C web-search web-search

in your bash startup (e.g. F<~/.bashrc>). Your next shell session will then
recognize tab completion for the command. Or, you can also directly execute the
line above in your shell to activate immediately.

It is recommended, however, that you install modules using L<cpanm-shcompgen>
which can activate shell completion for scripts immediately.

=head2 tcsh

To activate tcsh completion for this script, put:

 complete web-search 'p/*/`web-search`/'

in your tcsh startup (e.g. F<~/.tcshrc>). Your next shell session will then
recognize tab completion for the command. Or, you can also directly execute the
line above in your shell to activate immediately.

It is also recommended to install L<shcompgen> (see above).

=head2 other shells

For fish and zsh, install L<shcompgen> as described above.

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

This script can read configuration files. Configuration files are in the format of L<IOD>, which is basically INI with some extra features.

By default, these names are searched for configuration filenames (can be changed using C<--config-path>): F</home/u1/.config/web-search.conf>, F</home/u1/web-search.conf>, or F</etc/web-search.conf>.

All found files will be read and merged.

To disable searching for configuration files, pass C<--no-config>.

You can put multiple profiles in a single file by using section names like C<[profile=SOMENAME]> or C<[SOMESECTION profile=SOMENAME]>. Those sections will only be read if you specify the matching C<--config-profile SOMENAME>.

You can also put configuration for multiple programs inside a single file, and use filter C<program=NAME> in section names, e.g. C<[program=NAME ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION program=NAME]>. The section will then only be used when the reading program matches.

You can also filter a section by environment variable using the filter C<env=CONDITION> in section names. For example if you only want a section to be read if a certain environment variable is true: C<[env=SOMEVAR ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=SOMEVAR ...]>. If you only want a section to be read when the value of an environment variable equals some string: C<[env=HOSTNAME=blink ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=HOSTNAME=blink ...]>. If you only want a section to be read when the value of an environment variable does not equal some string: C<[env=HOSTNAME!=blink ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=HOSTNAME!=blink ...]>. If you only want a section to be read when the value of an environment variable includes some string: C<[env=HOSTNAME*=server ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=HOSTNAME*=server ...]>. If you only want a section to be read when the value of an environment variable does not include some string: C<[env=HOSTNAME!*=server ...]> or C<[SOMESECTION env=HOSTNAME!*=server ...]>. Note that currently due to simplistic parsing, there must not be any whitespace in the value being compared because it marks the beginning of a new section filter or section name.

To load and configure plugins, you can use either the C<-plugins> parameter (e.g. C<< -plugins=DumpArgs >> or C<< -plugins=DumpArgs@before_validate_args >>), or use the C<[plugin=NAME ...]> sections, for example:

 [plugin=DumpArgs]
 -event=before_validate_args
 -prio=99
 
 [plugin=Foo]
 -event=after_validate_args
 arg1=val1
 arg2=val2

 

which is equivalent to setting C<< -plugins=-DumpArgs@before_validate_args@99,-Foo@after_validate_args,arg1,val1,arg2,val2 >>.

List of available configuration parameters:

 action (see --action)
 append (see --append)
 delay (see --delay)
 engine (see --engine)
 format (see --format)
 log_level (see --log-level)
 max_delay (see --max-delay)
 min_delay (see --min-delay)
 naked_res (see --naked-res)
 num (see --num)
 prepend (see --prepend)
 queries (see --query)
 queries_from (see --queries-from)
 time_end (see --time-end)
 time_past (see --time-past)
 time_start (see --time-start)

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=head2 WEB_SEARCH_OPT

String. Specify additional command-line options.

=head1 FILES

=head2 /home/u1/.config/web-search.conf

=head2 /home/u1/web-search.conf

=head2 /etc/web-search.conf

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Open a single query, show 100 results

 % web-search "a query" -n 100

=head2 Open several queries, limit time period all search to the past month

 % web-search "query one" query2 "query number three" --time-past month

=head2 Open queries from each line of file, add delay 3s after each query (e.g. to avoid getting rate-limited)

 % web-search --queries-from phrases.txt --delay 3s

=head2 Open queries from each line of stdin

 % prog-that-produces-lines-of-phrases | web-search --queries-from -

=head2 Use a custom browser

 % BROWSER=lynx web-search "a query"

=head2 Use with firefox-container

 % BROWSER="firefox-container mycontainer" web-search "query one" query2

=head2 Show image search URLs instead of opening them in browser

 % web-search --engine google_image --print-url "query one" query2

=head2 Print map search URLs as Org links

 % web-search --engine google_map --print-org-link "jakarta selatan" "kebun raya bogor"

=head2 Prepend prefix words to each query, use Brave Search instead of the default Google (I'm sick of CAPTCHAs)

 % web-search --engine brave --prepend "imdb " "carrie" "hocus pocus" "raya"

=head2 Append suffix words to each query

 % web-search --append " net worth" "lewis capaldi" "beyonce" "lee mack" "mariah carey"

=head2 Visit the search URL for each query using Firefox::Marionette then extract and print the links

 % web-search "lee mack" --print-result-link

Currently not very useful with some search engines like Google because result
HTML page is obfuscated so we can just extract all links in each page instead of
selecting (via DOM) only the result links, etc.

If you want to filter the links further by domain, path, etc. you can use
L<grep-url>.


=head2 Get the IMDB URL for Lee Mack

 % web-search "lee mack imdb" --print-result-link | grep-url --host-contains imdb.com | head -n1

=head1 HOMEPAGE

Please visit the project's homepage at L<https://metacpan.org/release/App-WebSearchUtils>.

=head1 SOURCE

Source repository is at L<https://github.com/perlancar/perl-App-WebSearchUtils>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<firefox-container>.

L<App::FirefoxMultiAccountContainersUtils>.

=head1 AUTHOR

perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTING


To contribute, you can send patches by email/via RT, or send pull requests on
GitHub.

Most of the time, you don't need to build the distribution yourself. You can
simply modify the code, then test via:

 % prove -l

If you want to build the distribution (e.g. to try to install it locally on your
system), you can install L<Dist::Zilla>,
L<Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>,
L<Pod::Weaver::PluginBundle::Author::PERLANCAR>, and sometimes one or two other
Dist::Zilla- and/or Pod::Weaver plugins. Any additional steps required beyond
that are considered a bug and can be reported to me.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2022 by perlancar <perlancar@cpan.org>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 BUGS

Please report any bugs or feature requests on the bugtracker website L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=App-WebSearchUtils>

When submitting a bug or request, please include a test-file or a
patch to an existing test-file that illustrates the bug or desired
feature.

=cut
