Open Artistic License 4.0
-------------------------

Preamble

This license establishes the terms under which a software Package may
be used, copied, modified, distributed, and/or redistributed. The
intent is that the Copyright Holder maintains artistic control over
the development of the Package while giving the users of the Package
the right to use and distribute the Package for noncommercial
purposes, and the right to make reasonable modifications.

You can always make a licensing arrangement separate from this license
directly with the Copyright Holder of the Package. If the terms of
this license do not permit the full use that you propose to make of
the Package, you should contact the Copyright Holder and seek a
different licensing arrangement.

Definitions:

"Package" refers to the collection of files distributed by the
Copyright Holder, and derivatives of that collection of files created
through textual modification.

"Standard Version" refers to such a Package if it has not been
modified, or has been modified in accordance with the wishes of the
Copyright Holder as specified below.

"Modified Version" refers to the Package, if it has been changed, and
such changes were not explicitly requested by the Copyright Holder.

"Copyright Holder" means the individual(s) or organization(s) named in
the copyright notice for the entire Package.

"You" and "your" refer to any person who would like to use, copy,
distribute, or modify the Package.

"Distribute" means providing a copy of the Package or making it
accessible to anyone else, or in the case of a company or
organization, to others outside of your company or organization.

"Distribution fee" is a fee you charge for providing a copy
of this Package to another party.

"Freely Available" means that no fee is charged for the right to
use the item, though there may be fees involved in handling the
item. It also means that recipients of the item may redistribute
it under the same conditions they received it.

"Source" form means the source code, documentation source, and
configuration files for the Package.

"Compiled" form means the compiled bytecode, object code, binary, or
any other form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation
of the Source form.

"Original License" means this Open Artistic License as Distributed
with the Standard Version of the Package.

Permission for Use and Modification Without Distribution

1. You are permitted to use the Standard Version, and to create and
use Modified Versions, for noncommercial purposes, provided that you
do not Distribute a Modified Version, and provided that you are not
an entity excluded from this license grant, as specified in Section 14
below, nor an entity that has had this license grant terminated as
specified in Section 13 below.

2. You may not use the Standard Version or a Modified Version as part
of any commercial product or service, or in a manner intended for or
directed towards commercial advantage or compensation. If you would
like to use the Package in a commercial product or service, or in a
manner intended for or directed towards commercial advantage, you may
contact the Copyright Holder to arrange for a commercial use license.

Permissions for Redistribution of the Standard Version

3. You may Distribute verbatim copies of the Source form of the
Standard Version of this Package in any medium without restriction,
either gratis or for a Distributor Fee, provided that you duplicate
all of the original copyright notices and associated disclaimers. At
your discretion, such verbatim copies may or may not include a
Compiled form of the Package.

4. You may apply any bug fixes, portability changes, and other
modifications made available from the Copyright Holder. The resulting
Package will still be considered the Standard Version, and as such
will be subject to the Original License.

Distribution of Modified Versions

5. You may not Distribute a Modified Version either as Source or in a
Compiled form. If you would like to Distribute a Modified Version, you
may contact the Copyright Holder to arrange for an alternate license
that permits this.

Distribution of Compiled Forms of the Standard Version without the Source

6. You may Distribute Compiled forms of the Standard Version without
the Source, provided that you include complete instructions on how to
get the Source of the Standard Version. Such instructions must be
valid at the time of your distribution. If these instructions, at any
time while you are carrying out such distribution, become invalid, you
must provide new instructions on demand or cease further
distribution. If you provide valid instructions or cease distribution
within thirty days after you become aware that the instructions are
invalid, then you do not forfeit any of your rights under this
license.

Aggregating or Linking the Package

7. You may aggregate the Standard Version of the Package with other
packages and Distribute the resulting aggregation provided that you do
not charge a licensing fee for the Package. Distributor Fees are
permitted, and licensing fees for other components in the aggregation
are permitted. The terms of this license apply to the use and
Distribution of the Standard Version as included in the aggregation.

8. You are permitted to link the Standard Version with other works, to
embed the Package in a larger work of your own, or to build
stand-alone binary or bytecode versions of applications that include
the Package, and Distribute the result. The terms of this license
apply to the use and Distribution of the Standard Version linked or
embedded with another work.

Items That are Not Considered Part of a Modified Version

9. Works (including, but not limited to, modules and scripts) that
merely extend or make use of the Package, do not, by themselves, cause
the Package to be a Modified Version. In addition, such works are not
considered parts of the Package itself, and are not subject to the
terms of this license.

General Provisions

10. Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or Modified
Versions is governed by this Open Artistic License. By using,
modifying or distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not
use, modify, or distribute the Package, if you do not accept this
license.

11. This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark,
service mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder, or to use
the Copyright Holder's name to endorse or promote products derived
from this software.

12. This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide, free-of-charge
patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import
and otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any patent claims
licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily infringed by
the Package. If you institute patent litigation (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim) against any party alleging that the
Package constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then
this Open Artistic License to you shall terminate on the date that
such litigation is filed.

13. Termination of license: The Copyright Holder may terminate this
Open Artisic License to you at their sole discretion, at any time, and
without assigning any reason. Upon the termination of the License you
must immediately cease use of the Package. License termination will
also terminate your right to Distribute any versions embedded or
linked in your own works.

14. License exclusions: This license is NOT granted and does NOT apply
to ANY of the following entities:

    a) Criminal entities involved in the violation of individual
       rights, and any associated entities, including the members,
       owners, collaborators, beneficiaries, employees, contractors
       and affiliates of such entities. The term "criminal" in this
       context refers only to actions and entities that violate
       individual rights, not to those that are legislatively declared
       "criminal" by a government but don't involve the violation of
       individual rights.

    b) Government entities and wholly or partially government funded
       entities, and any associated entities, including the members,
       employees, contractors, affiliates, and net beneficiaries of
       such entities. This includes Corporations or other entities
       (including individuals) that receive funding or income from
       government entities or government funded entities, and all
       associated entities, including the members, owners, employees,
       contractors and affiliates of such entities.

    c) Entities engaged in the advocacy or propagation of ideologies
       that are inimical to individual rights, including socialism,
       communism, fascism, racism, feminism, Marxism, and
       collectivism, and any associated entities, including the
       members, owners, collaborators, beneficiaries, employees,
       contractors and affiliates of such entities.

If you are uncertain whether this license exclusion applies to you, you
should contact the Copyright Holder to ascertain if it does.

15. Entities that are excluded from the rights granted by this Open
Artistic License through license termination as per Section 13, or by
being listed in Section 14, may still, unless notified otherwise by
the Copyright Holder, distribute the Standard Version of the
package. They may also execute any test suite included with the
Standard Version of the Package as part of their participation in a
public automated quality assurance / testing network. However they may
not use any version of the Package, or create or Distribute any
Modified Versions.

16. You agree to ensure that your use and/or distribution of the
Package complies with all applicable laws. This license does not
authorize the use or distribution of any version of the Package for,
or in association with, any illegal activity. You agree to indemnify
the Copyright Holder for any costs or consequences arising from your
use or distribution of the Package in violation of any applicable
laws.

17. Disclaimer of Warranty: THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES. THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT
PERMITTED BY YOUR LOCAL LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTOR WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THE PACKAGE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
