# This file was generated with Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Manifest::Write v0.9.5
Build.PL                                            #              3rd party file built by ModuleBuildTiny
COPYING                                             # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file built by GenerateFile
Changes                                             # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
GPLv3                                               # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
MANIFEST                                            #               metainfo file built by Manifest::Write
META.json                                           #               metainfo file built by MetaJSON
META.yml                                            #               metainfo file built by MetaYAML
README                                              # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file built by GenerateFile
VERSION                                             # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/AdaptiveTestVersion/README.pod                   # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/AdaptiveTestVersion/dist.ini                     # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/Description/README.pod                           # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/Description/dist.ini                             # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/TemplateVariables/BUGS.pod                       # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/TemplateVariables/README.pod                     # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/TemplateVariables/dist.ini                       # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/UnwantedDependencies/README.pod                  # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/UnwantedDependencies/dist.ini                    # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/VersionHandling/README.pod                       # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/VersionHandling/VERSION                          # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
eg/VersionHandling/dist.ini                         # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook.pm                       # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/AfterBuild.pm            #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/AfterMint.pm             #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/AfterRelease.pm          #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/BeforeArchive.pm         #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/BeforeBuild.pm           #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/BeforeMint.pm            #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/BeforeRelease.pm         #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/FileGatherer.pm          #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/FileMunger.pm            #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/FilePruner.pm            #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/Init.pm                  #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/InstallTool.pm           #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/LicenseProvider.pm       #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/Manual.pod               # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/MetaProvider.pm          #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/ModuleMaker.pm           #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/NameProvider.pm          #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/PrereqSource.pm          #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/ReleaseStatusProvider.pm #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/Releaser.pm              #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Plugin/Hook/VersionProvider.pm       #              3rd party file built by =tools::GenerateHooks
lib/Dist/Zilla/Role/Hooker.pm                       # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
t/00-compile.t                                      #              3rd party file built by Test::Compile
t/hook.t                                            # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
t/lib/HookTester.pm                                 # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
xt/aspell-en.pws                                    # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
xt/author/critic.t                                  #              3rd party file built by Test::Perl::Critic
xt/author/eol.t                                     #              3rd party file built by Test::EOL
xt/author/mojibake.t                                #              3rd party file built by MojibakeTests
xt/author/no-tabs.t                                 #              3rd party file built by Test::NoTabs
xt/author/pod-coverage.t                            #              3rd party file built by PodCoverageTests
xt/author/pod-no404s.t                              #              3rd party file built by Test::Pod::No404s
xt/author/pod-spell.t                               #              3rd party file built by Test::PodSpelling
xt/author/pod-syntax.t                              #              3rd party file built by PodSyntaxTests
xt/author/test-version.t                            #              3rd party file built by Test::Version
xt/examples.t                                       # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
xt/perlcritic.ini                                   # Dist-Zilla-Plugin-Hook file added by Manifest::Read
xt/release/cpan-changes.t                           #              3rd party file built by Test::CPAN::Changes
xt/release/dist-manifest.t                          #              3rd party file built by Test::DistManifest
xt/release/distmeta.t                               #              3rd party file built by MetaTests
xt/release/fixme.t                                  #              3rd party file built by Test::Fixme
xt/release/kwalitee.t                               #              3rd party file built by Test::Kwalitee
xt/release/meta-json.t                              #              3rd party file built by Test::CPAN::Meta::JSON
xt/release/minimum-version.t                        #              3rd party file built by Test::MinimumVersion
xt/release/new-version.t                            #              3rd party file built by Test::NewVersion
xt/release/pod-linkcheck.t                          #              3rd party file built by Test::Pod::LinkCheck
xt/release/portability.t                            #              3rd party file built by Test::Portability
xt/release/synopsis.t                               #              3rd party file built by Test::Synopsis
