Paranoid
========

NOTICE:  One might wonder how we've jumped from 0.x releases to 2.x.  I've
decided to skip the 1.x releases to make it (hopefully) more obvious that
the API has changed and is not compatible with the 0.x series.  My fear was
that the average devmight see 0.x to 1.x and assume that I was simply
declaring the API stable.  While 2.x is a stable API it is not compatible
with 0.x.

In addition to the API change there is also a packaging change in that I am
no longer shipping modules with the core distribution that were essentially
non-functioning unless you had additional modules installed (outside of the
mandatory prerequisites).  Those modules will still be available, but only
as their own distributions on CPAN.

With that out of the way I present to you, with no further ado, Paranoid
v2.0.

--

  The Paranoid suite of modules intend to provide an application framework
that's designed for secure programming.  It has internally consistent
debugging and tracing capabilities and is tested for use in applications
with taint-mode enabled in addition to the normal strict and warnings modes.
  The focus of these modules is to make secure programming convenient and
easy enough that it becomes the developer's default development target, not
just a feature of special software.
  To that end you will find APIs for a multitude of common tasks, from
process management to input handling.  There are also compatiblity modules
(like Paranoid::Network::Socket) that can make IPv6 programming
seemless, regardless of the version of Perl running or its incremental level
of support for IPv6.
  Each module has its own documentation.  You can find a complete list of
modules in this suite from the Paranoid POD.

  Please send bugs, requests, and flames to Arthur Corliss
<corliss@digitalmages.com>.
