---
title: Statocles Config
---

This guide will walk you through configuring a Statocles site. Statocles
is configured with a YAML configuration file, usually called `site.yml`.
This file configures one or more sites, each with their own names, URLs,
applications, themes, and deployment targets.

# Site Create Command

To make configuring a site easier, Statocles comes with a `statocles
create` command, which will walk you through setting up a simple site.
To use the `create` command, open a terminal and run `statocles create
<site>` where `<site>` is the domain name of the site you want to create
(say, `www.example.com`). Statocles will create a directory for your
site, ask you some questions about the site you're trying to create, and
then create the site config for you and populate it with some initial
content.

Once the create command is complete, see the rest of this guide for more
customization options, or [the content guide](../content) for how to get
started editing your site's content.

# Site From Scratch

If you want to forgo the site creator, you can create a site config from
scratch with a text editor. Create a directory for your site, say
`www.example.com`. In this directory, create a file called `site.yml`.
This will be our configuration file, and is the default configuration
file name for Statocles.

## YAML

Statocles configuration files are written in YAML, a human-readable
language for both simple and complex data structures.

The most common construct in the configuration YAML file is
a "dictionary" or "hash". This is made up of names (keys) that refer to
values. The key and the value are separated by a colon, like so:

    name: Doug Bell
    email: doug@example.com

So here we define a dictionary that has two keys. The "name" key is set
to "Doug Bell" and the "email" key is set to "doug@example.com".

Dictionaries can be nested. That is, the value of a dictionary key can
be another dictionary. YAML uses indentation to build nested data
structures, like so.

    author:
        name: Doug Bell
        email: doug@example.com
    status: draft

This dictionary also has two keys, but this time, the "author" key has
a value that contains another dictionary, and this inner dictionary has
our name and e-mail address.

Invalid indentation is a common problem in YAML files, so Statocles
tries to detect the errors coming from the YAML parser to advise you
about what could be wrong.

In addition to dictionaries, YAML also supports lists (or arrays), which
are sequences of values. To define a list, we use a dash "-" followed by
a space.

    - http://example.com/bootstrap.css
    - http://example.com/style.css

Here we defined a list with two elements, URLs to some CSS files we're
going to use.

Like dictionaries, lists can contain other lists. On top of that, lists
can contain dictionaries and dictionaries can contain lists.

    links:
        stylesheet:
            - /bootstrap.css
            - /style.css
            - href: print.css
              media: print

Here we have a dictionary with a single key "links" that contains
a dictionary with a single key "stylesheet" that contains a list of
three items. The first two items in the list are simple strings, and the
third is a dictionary with two keys (href and media) with string values.

There are some other YAML constructs that will be useful when writing
Statocles config files:

Strings can wrap to the next line as long as the indentation is right.
Additionally, you can use -| or -< to explicitly say you're doing
a multiline string.

You can make single-line lists using [] and single-line dictionaries
using {}.

For more info on YAML, see http://yaml.org

## The Config File

The Statocles configuration file consists of a collection of objects,
each with a given name. The main site object has the name `site`. A blog
application could have the name `blog`.

Each object has its own set of configuration, which is detailed below,
but every object looks approximately the same: A YAML dictionary, with
a special key `$class` which denotes what type of object it is. These
classes will be explained below, but an example `site` object could look
like this:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        title: My Blog
        base_url: http://example.com

This block of configuration creates an object named "site". This object
has a class of "Statocles::Site", which makes it our main site object.
Then we give it a title of "My Blog" and a base URL of
"http://example.com".

<aside>
For Developers, this configuration file uses [the Beam::Wire
module](http://metacpan.org/pod/Beam::Wire). Anything Beam::Wire is
capable of can be done in Statocles to customize how your site is
generated.
</aside>

## Site Basics

The `site` object is the main object which represents our entire site.
This object contains all the site-wide information, applications, and
theme. The simplest informational attributes that the site object
contains are also some of the most important: The title, and the site's
base URL.

### Title

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        title: My Blog

The site `title` attribute will appear in every page's `<title>` tag,
and can be used in other places as well.

### Base URL

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        base_url: http://example.com/mysite

The `base_url` attribute will help Statocles create full URLs when it
needs to, usually when building feed files. The base URL must contain
a domain (`http://example.com`), and may contain a path (`/mysite`) if
your site does not have complete control of the domain. Statocles will
use the base URL path to rewrite all the URLs in the site, so you can
move your site to different places just by changing the base URL.

## Basic content

Most of a site's content will come from the Markdown, HTML, image, CSS,
JavaScript, and other files you put in your site's directory. This
content is handled by the "Basic" app. Applications are covered in
detail later, but for the sake of this section: An application uses the
content you write to create the site's pages. The Basic app simply reads
all the content it can find and copies it into the site, additionally
converting Markdown into HTML.

To add an application to our site, we need to create a new object. Each
object needs a name (we'll call this one "basic_app") and a class (the
Basic app class is "Statocles::App::Basic"). 

The basic app also needs a directory for its files. Since we want our
site to pick up any file from anywhere in our site directory, we'll set
our directory to ".", which is the current directory, the same directory
our config file is in, and the root directory of our site. This
directory is also known as the application's "store", the storage
location for all the app's content. 

Finally, the basic app needs a base URL. Since our app's content is
coming from the root of our site, we probably want our app's base URL to
be the root of our site, "/". This base URL will be added to the
content's path, and then the site's base URL will be added to that to
create the full URL to the content.

    basic_app:
        $class: Statocles::App::Basic
        store: "."
        base_url: "/"

Once we have our basic_app object, we need to add it to our site object.
The site object has an `apps` attribute that contains a mapping of apps
to names. These names are used when accessing the app from the
command-line (app commands are covered in [the content
guide](../content)). Each app must have a unique name. For consistency,
we'll give our basic app the name "basic". Inside the site apps
attribute, we give a reference to our `basic_app` object using the
`$ref` directive.

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        apps:
            basic:
                $ref: basic_app

With `$ref`, we can separate our objects so that they're easier to read
and configure. We'll be using this a lot.

Now we have a site that can change basic Markdown into HTML, and will
copy any existing HTML, images, CSS, and JavaScript into our site.

## Simple Blog

The Blog application does some extra things, different from the Basic
app: In addition to copying images, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files, it
also creates a list of your blog posts, RSS and Atom feeds for your
blog, and a set of tag pages and feeds to organize your blog posts into
categories. The blog app also enforces some requirements for your posts:
They must all be organized in directories like `/YYYY/MM/DD/post-title`,
with the year, month, and day of the post appearing in the path. This
allows the blog to organize your posts by date, so the most recent posts
are shown first.

To add a blog app to our site, we must create another object. Similar to
how we named the basic app before, we'll call this object `blog_app`.
The class of the blog app must be `Statocles::App::Blog`, and like the
basic app, we require a "store" for the content of our blog (we'll use
`blog`, but `_posts` is another possibility), and a base URL for our
blog (we'll use "/blog").

    blog_app:
        $class: Statocles::App::Blog
        store: "blog"
        base_url: "/blog"

This will get us a basic blog app with all of its default features.
In-depth coverage of other blog features continues below.

Now that we have the object, we add it to our site's `apps` attribute
using the `$ref` directive like before. This time, we'll give our blog
app the name "blog". 

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        apps:
            basic:
                $ref: basic_app
            blog:
                $ref: blog_app

Now our site has a blog. New blog posts can be easily added using the
`statocles blog post` application command, covered in [the content
guide](../content).

## Index Page

Now that we've got some applications, we need to choose what our index
page will be. The index page is the main home page of the site. The site
`index` attribute allows us to set a path. The page located at this path
will be used as our index page. As Statocles builds the site, the path
of the index page will be changed to the site root, and every link to
our index page will be fixed to link to the site root.

For example, if we want to use our blog app as our home page, we could
set our `index` attribute to the blog app's `base_url`:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        index: /blog

If instead we want to use a regular page whose content lives in
`home.markdown`, we could set our `index` attribute to `/home.html`,
which is the page that will be created by our `home.markdown` file.

If our blog has a tag called "robots", we could choose to use that tag
as an index page by setting the `index` attribute to `/blog/tag/robots`.
The final `/index.html` is optional.

## Theme

Now we need a theme. The theme is a collection of templates, CSS,
JavaScript, and images which control how our site looks. Full details on
what a theme is and how to customize your theme are available in [the
theme guide](../theme).

For now, we'll use the default theme that comes with Statocles. The
default theme is a minimal, basic blue theme using [the Skeleton CSS
library](http://getskeleton.com) with some Statocles widgets and
modifications.

We add our theme to our site object using the site object's `theme`
attribute:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        theme: '::default'

The default themes that come with Statocles are:

* `::default`
    * A simple, minimal theme using the Skeleton CSS library
* `::bootstrap`
    * A simple theme using the Bootstrap CSS library

The leading `::` is special and means to use a default theme. These
themes are bundled with Statocles and may change when you upgrade. If
you want to use a custom theme, you can simply use the theme's path,
like so:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        theme: 'site/theme'

All the themes that come with Statocles have the same set of optional
features which are enabled by data attributes on the site object
(covered below). Customizing your theme is handled in [the theme
guide](../theme).

## Deploy

Finally, we should have a way to deploy our site. You can skip this if
you're just trying Statocles out, but the `create` command builds
a deploy, so we will here as well.

Like an application, a deploy is an object. So let's create an object
named `deploy`. Like applications, there are different kinds of deploy
objects we can create. The File deploy simply copies our site to another
directory on the same machine, and the Git deploy uses a Git repository
to deploy our site (like [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com)).

For now, let's create a File deploy and deploy our site into the
"deploy" directory.

    deploy:
        $class: Statocles::Deploy::File
        path: ./deploy

Once we have our deploy, we can add it to our site:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        # ...
        deploy:
            $ref: deploy

More details on deploys are below.

## Complete Minimal Site

Here's the complete, minimal site configuration file we created above.
Feel free to copy this and edit it for your own use.

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        title: My Blog
        base_url: http://example.com
        theme: '::default'
        index: /blog
        apps:
            basic:
                $ref: basic_app
            blog:
                $ref: blog_app
        deploy:
            $ref: deploy

    basic_app:
        $class: Statocles::App::Basic
        store: "."
        base_url: "/"

    blog_app:
        $class: Statocles::App::Blog
        store: "blog"
        base_url: "/blog"

    deploy:
        $class: Statocles::Deploy::File
        path: ./deploy

# Site Object

Above, we created a complete, but minimal site object. Let's go back and
see how to customize our site further.

The site object is the main part of our configuration. As such, the site
configuration effects the entire site. There are a lot of options
available, but not all will apply, so don't worry. If you don't
understand something, feel free to [ask us about it in
IRC](https://chat.mibbit.com/?channel=%23statocles&server=irc.perl.org).

## Title and Author

Every site needs a title, which will appear on every page in the title
bar and bookmarks made from your site. Every site should also have an
author, which can be simply a name (or nickname), but can also include
an e-mail address. The author information is used in site metadata and
feeds.

To add this information, we use the `title` and `author` attributes:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        title: Doug's Website
        author: Doug Bell <doug@example.com>

Now, every page in our site will show our title and author information
(although, author information can be overridden for individual pages).

## Base URL

The `base_url` attribute lets Statocles know how to create links in the
site. Some links need a full URL (like syndicated feeds and other
content read outside the site), most others need to be absolute. The
site base URL is combined is used to rewrite links as needed.

Statocles allows the `base_url` attribute to contain both a host
(http://www.example.com) and an optional path (/site). If your site
moves to a different host or path, you only need to change your
`base_url` attribute and re-deploy your site.

Some examples of possible base URLs are:

    # Statocles is deployed at the web root directory
    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        base_url: http://example.com

    # Statocles is being used just for a blog
    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        base_url: http://example.com/blog
        apps:
            blog:
                $class: Statocles::App::Blog
                store: .

When writing links in your content, you do not need to include the site
base URL. The host and path will be added automatically when
appropriate.

## Navigation

Navigations are how users can explore our site. Navigations consist of
trees of links, and are used to create menus and provide structure to
the information in our site (which can be different to the structure
used to store our content). Navigations go in our "site" object inside
the "nav" attribute.

Each navigation has a name. The name is used by the theme to put the
navigation in the right place.

To create a navigation, we first pick a name, and then we give a list of
links. Each link is a dictionary of link attributes like "text" for the
link text and "href" for the link URL. Let's create a "main" navigation
for the main pages in our site, which are "Blog", "Projects", and
"Photos".

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        # ...
        nav:
            main:
                - text: Blog
                  href: /blog
                - text: Projects
                  href: /projects
                - text: Photos
                  href: /photos

To create a multi-level navigation, we can add the "children" attribute
to a link. Let's create a footer nav that includes some blog tags, some
featured projects, and some photo galleries.

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        # ...
        nav:
            footer:
                - text: Blog
                  href: /blog
                  children:
                    - text: Perl
                      href: /blog/tag/perl
                    - text: Web
                      href: /blog/tag/web
                - text: Projects
                  href: /projects
                  children:
                    - text: Statocles
                      href: /projects/statocles
                    - text: Yertl
                      href: /projects/yertl
                - text: Photos
                  href: /photos
                  children:
                    - text: Food
                      href: /photos/food
                    - text: Family
                      href: /photos/family

Now our footer has a few lists of links to deeper areas of our site.

Navigations used by the default themes are:

* `main`
    * The main navigation in the top nav bar. Some themes allow multiple
      levels as a dropdown menu
* `side`
    * A navigation shown in the side bar. This is where blogrolls and
      miscellaneous links can go. Or it can be used instead of the
      "main" nav. Can be up to 2 levels deep.
* `footer`
    * A navigation shown in the footer. This is often used for detailed
      lists of content.

Your custom theme can have additional navigations for other things. See
[the theme guide](../theme) for more information.

## Links

Links are similar to navigations, they're both lists of URLs, but for
two differences:

* They're not recursive, so you can't have more levels of links
* Navigations are shown on the page and used to navigate the site. Links
  are used to add scripts, stylesheets, and other metadata to the page.

Like the `nav` attribute, the `links` attribute organizes links with
a key. Inside this key is a list of URLs or link attributes.

All of the default Statocles templates support the following link keys:

* `scripts` - A list of scripts to add to every page
* `stylesheets` - A list of stylesheets to add to every page

For example, lets add a custom script to all our pages.

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        links:
            scripts:
                - /js/custom.js

There is more than one way to add scripts and stylesheets to pages, so
pick whichever one makes the most sense.

## Images

You can attach images to your site object using the `images` attribute.
This allows you to set a shortcut icon, and add a logo and user portrait
to your site.

Like navigations and links, images have a key. Inside that key is
a single image URL, or set of image attributes.

For example, to set a shortcut icon, we only need the URL:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        images:
            icon: /favicon.png

But to set the user portrait, we should include some alt text for
non-visual user agents:

XXX

XXX Logo, Portrait, Icon
XXX Allow sizes on Image objects. These aren't sizes to make, they're sizes to use this image for.
XXX Image method should filter by size

## Data Attributes

The site's `data` attribute allows us to add arbitrary configuration
data to our site object. This data can then be used by our theme to
provide custom sections and integrate external services. The `data`
attribute must be a dictionary, but can contain any kind of information
inside that dictionary.

The Statocles default themes provide the following data keys to
customize your site. To create your own data keys, see [the theme
guide](../theme).

### Disqus

Disqus is an externally-hosted site comment application. By signing up
(for free), you can add user comments to any site by adding a snippet of
Javascript code to your pages.

To add [Disqus](https://disqus.com) comments to your blog, you can
configure the `disqus` data key. You will need your Disqus shortname,
which you can set from [your Disqus
dashboard](https://disqus.com/admin/). Statocles includes the code
needed to integrate with Disqus, so all you need to do is configure it,
like so:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        data:
            disqus:
                shortname: statocles

In the example, our shortname is `statocles`. With that set, the blog
app will now show the number of comments in the post list page, and the
Disqus comment app below the blog post content.

### Google Analytics

[Google Analytics](https://www.google.com/analytics/) is a hosted
solution for collecting site visitor metrics like where the visitor came
from, how they navigated through your site, and whether they purchased
anything. Since it uses Javascript, it's good for static sites that
don't want to run their own log analysis.

Statocles comes with the code snippet needed to collect analytics. To
add Google Analytics to your site, you need to have the site's GA
identifier. Add this ID to the site data attribute, like so:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        data:
            google_analytics_id: GA-123456-1

Now every page in your site will have the right script to send analytics
to Google so you can read statistics reports.

# Applications

A Statocles application transforms the content you write into the pages
of your site. Most applications have their own directory in your site
and pull their content from there. Each application also has a base URL,
allowing multiple apps to be placed into different directories in your
site.

Different apps can do different kinds of content. The Basic app handles
simple Markdown to HTML conversion, but the Blog app will create lists
of blog posts and feeds for syndicated content readers. The Perldoc app
will take a Perl project and generate HTML from the project's
documentation. And if you need a custom app, you can write your own (see
[the develop guide for details](../develop)).

To add new applications to our site, we need to create the application
object, give it the configuration it may need (like content directory
and base URL), and then add it to the site object's `apps` attribute.
See [Simple Content](), above, for how to add apps to the site object.

## Basic App

The [Basic app](/pod/Statocles/App/Basic) handles just the basic
Markdown to HTML conversion, and copying any image, script, or
stylesheet inside its directory. For this reason, it is frequently used
as the root of the site so that any file in the site directory will
appear in the deployed site. This basic functionality is shared by most
other applications, so that files can be placed where they are
convenient and logical.

XXX

## Blog App

XXX

## Perldoc App

The Perldoc app is meant for Perl projects to generate HTML from the
Perl POD documentation format. It also has support for
[Pod::Weaver](http://metacpan.org/pod/Pod::Weaver),
which helps make POD easier to write. Most POD formatting is handled
correctly. Links to internal modules are rewritten to internal links,
and links to other modules will direct users to
[MetaCPAN](http://metacpan.org). The Perldoc app also displays
a crumbtrail navigation and allows users to display the source code of
the module.

To configure a Perldoc app, we need a list of module namespaces we want
to generate documentation for, and a list of directories to search for
those namespaces. Unlike other apps, the Perldoc app does not have
a store, does not generate pages from Markdown, and does not (currently)
copy images and other kinds of files.

So let's configure our Perldoc app to look in our "lib" directory to
find our Perl project, which is called "Local" and has modules in the
"lib/Local" directory.

    perldoc_app:
        $class: Statocles::App::Perldoc
        inc:
            - lib
        modules:
            - Local
            - Local::

Note: We need to specify "Local" to get "Local.pm" and "Local::" to get
every module underneath the "Local::" namespace. Explicitly specifying
the module namespaces we want to search in prevents us from catching
modules that we didn't intend to catch.

### Pod::Weaver

Pod::Weaver is a POD pre-processor that makes POD a bit easier to write.
It can automatically generate certain POD sections like author, license,
and copyright information. It can collect and re-order POD sections and
add section headers so that they read better, regardless of where the
POD appears in the code. There are even plugins that allow for using
Markdown and JSDoc in your Perl documentation. I highly recommend using
Pod::Weaver when documenting your Perl code.

Pod::Weaver requires the following Perl modules to be installed.

* Pod::Weaver
* PPI

These modules are not installed by default with Statocles. See [the
install guide](../install) for help with installing optional Perl
modules.

To configure Pod::Weaver, we need a `weaver.ini` file to tell
Pod::Weaver how to organize our sections. A simple default `weaver.ini`
may look like:

    [Name]
    [Version]
    [Generic / SYNOPSIS]
    [Generic / DESCRIPTION]
    [Leftovers]
    [Authors]
    [Contributors]
    [Legal]

For more information about `weaver.ini`, see [the Pod::Weaver
documentation](http://metacpan.org/pod/Pod::Weaver).

To enable Pod::Weaver in our Perldoc app, we need to set the
`weave` attribute to `true`:

    perldoc_app:
        $class: Statocles::App::Perldoc
        inc:
            - lib
        modules:
            - Local
            - Local::
        weave: true

Now our POD will be run through Pod::Weaver before being turned into
HTML.

# Plugins

Plugins can do two things: They can modify the site's content as it is
being generated, and they can add template helpers, which are functions
you can use in your content and templates.

To add a plugin, we use the site's "plugins" attribute. Like
applications, each plugin has a name. And like applications, we use
"$class" to refer to the plugin that we want. Then we can add any
plugin-specific attributes we want.

For example, to load a plugin named "Statocles::Plugin::Example" to our
site, we do this:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        # ...
        plugins:
            example:
                $class: Statocles::Plugin::Example

Now the "Example" plugin is added to our site to do whatever example
plugins do (probably make an example of our site).

## Link Check

The link check plugin (Statocles::Plugin::LinkCheck) ensures that all
the links, images, stylesheets, and scripts in our site are valid. This
is extremely helpful to ensure users don't get lost or confused, and
that all our content is being displayed as we intended. Broken links are
an immediate indicator of a dead site, and dead sites don't get return
visitors.

To enable the link check plugin, simply add it to your list of plugins.
By default, all links to internal content is checked. This includes all
relative and absolute URLs, but not full URLs.

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        plugins:
            link_check:
                $class: Statocles::Plugin::LinkCheck

Now when we build our site (statocles build, statocles deploy, and
statocles daemon), all our links will be checked for validity. If a link
is invalid, we'll get a warning:

> `[Thu Oct 27 20:13:05 2016] [warn] URL broken on
> /blog/2016/09/15/cheese-gnocchi/index.html: '/recipe/cheese-gnocchi'
> not found`

If there are broken links that we want to ignore, we can add them to the
"ignore" attribute. This attribute allows us to specify a match string
as a regular expression to ignore certain broken links. This is useful
if we have content that is not managed by Statocles but still looks like
part of our site.

For example, let's ignore the "cgi-bin" directory (which we serve using
Apache), and let's ignore all images that end in ".thumb.jpg", which we
generate outside of Statocles:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        plugins:
            link_check:
                $class: Statocles::Plugin::LinkCheck
                ignore:
                    - ^/cgi-bin/
                    - [.]thumb[.]jpg$

Now, if one of these links looks broken, it will be ignored instead of
reported.

## Highlight

Often when writing a programming blog, you want to display a block of
code. To make the code easier to follow, programmers often use syntax
highlighting to color different parts of the code to signal which parts
have which meaning.

The Highlight plugin (Statocles::Plugin::Highlight) enables the
`highlight` function in your content and templates. This plugin requires
the `Syntax::Highlighter::Engine::Kate` module. For help installing
optional modules, see [the install guide](../install).

To enable the highlight plugin, add it to the site's `plugins`
attribute:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        plugins:
            highlight:
                $class: Statocles::Plugin::Highlight

This adds the `highlight` function to our content templates, which we
can use like this:

    %%= highlight perl => begin
        my $foo = 2 + 3;
        print $foo;
    %% end

### Color Style

The highlight plugin comes with multiple color styles. The style can be
configured using the plugin's `style` attribute:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        plugins:
            highlight:
                $class: Statocles::Plugin::Highlight
                style: solarized-light

The built-in styles are:

* default - A default style from [HighlightJS](https://highlightjs.org)
* solarized-light - The light flavor of
  [Solarized](http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized)
* solarized-dark - The dark flavor of
  [Solarized](http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized)

%= highlight -style => 'default', perl => begin
    # The "default" style
    my $foo = 2 + 3
    print $foo;
% end

%= highlight -style => 'solarized-light', perl => begin
    # The "solarized-light" style
    my $foo = 2 + 3
    print $foo;
% end

%= highlight -style => 'solarized-dark', perl => begin
    # The "solarized-dark" style
    my $foo = 2 + 3
    print $foo;
% end

For more information on the `highlight` function and content templates,
see [the content guide](../content).

## HTML Lint

A linter checks code for major and minor issues. Some of these issues
will cause the code to display incorrectly, and others are simply best
practices that will help your content reach the widest audience. For
example, a linter can make sure that we're using valid tags, that our
attribute values are correct, that tags are closed properly, and that we
add the right attributes to the right tags.

Statocles has a plugin to automatically run your HTML through a lint
check for issues. To enable the HTML Lint plugin
(Statocles::Plugin::HTMLLint), we need to first install the
HTML::Lint::Pluggable module. See [the install guide](../install) for
help installing optional modules.

Then we can add the HTML Lint plugin to our site's `plugins` attribute:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        plugins:
            lint:
                $class: Statocles::Plugin::HTMLLint

Now when our generated HTML has an issue, we'll be warned about it:

> [Thu Oct 27 20:56:45 2016] [warn] Lint failures on /blog/2015/04/16/release-v0-045/index.html:
> [Thu Oct 27 20:56:45 2016] [warn] - (144:109) Unknown element <port>
> [Thu Oct 27 20:56:45 2016] [warn] - (144:148) <port> at (144:109) is never closed

# Deploy

The deploy object determines how we push our site into production. For
basic sites, we can simply copy the files to another directory on the
current machine. But for sites tracked with Git, we can use Git to
deploy our site, which also allows us to use [Github
Pages](http://pages.github.com) to host our site.

We create a deploy object like any other object, with a new top-level
item in our configuration. Then we add our deploy object to our site
object's `deploy` attribute.

XXX Write Statocles::Deploy::Command module

## File Deploy

The File deploy (Statocles::Deploy::File) is the simplest deploy option:
It copies your site to another directory on the same machine. But
despite its simplicity, the file deploy can be used in some complex
situations, including using [Git
hooks](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks) or
[Jenkins](https://jenkins.io) to deploy your site.

To create a File deploy we need only a path to deploy to:

    deploy:
        $class: Statocles::Deploy::File
        path: /var/www/example.com

Then, we can add our deploy object to our site's `deploy` attribute:

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        deploy:
            $ref: deploy

Now when we run `statocles deploy`, our site will be copied into our
deploy directory.

## Git Deploy

The Git deploy (Statocles::Deploy::Git) uses a [Git
repository](http://git-scm.org) to deploy our site. This is coupled with
some behavior on the server to copy our site from the Git repository
into the correct directory to be served by our web server.

To configure a Git deploy, we need our website to be inside a Git
repository. To do that, we just need to run `git init` in our website's
root directory, then we can add all our content with `git add`, and
commit it to the repository with `git commit`. See [the official Git
documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc) for more information on using
Git.

Once our site is in a Git repository, we can configure our deployment.
To configure a Git deploy, we need to know what branch to deploy to, and
optionally what remote to push our branch to. In this example, let's
deploy our site to another branch, called `deploy`. This means Statocles
will generate our content and then save that content on the `deploy`
branch. We'll push our branch to the "origin" remote, which is the
default.

    deploy:
        $class: Statocles::Deploy::Git
        branch: deploy
        remote: origin

Now we can add our deploy to our site's `deploy` attribute.

    site:
        $class: Statocles::Site
        deploy:
            $ref: deploy

Now when we run `statocles deploy`, our site content will be committed
to the `deploy` branch, and that branch will be pushed to the `origin`
remote. To automatically copy your site to your web server when you
push, see [Custom Git Hosting](), below.

### Github Pages

If you're a [Github](http://github.com) user, you can use [Github
Pages](https://pages.github.com) to host your site. Github Pages are
great for hosting sites for projects already on Github, or for hosting
small personal websites. You can even use your own domain.

For a project site, we simply need to deploy our site to the `gh-pages`
branch. So, we can configure our deploy like so:

    deploy:
        $class: Statocles::Deploy::Git
        branch: gh-pages

Then we can run `statocles deploy`, and our site will be deployed to
`http://<username>.github.io/<repo-name>`. It may take a few minutes for
the site to be fully deployed live.

For an account/user site, we create a Github repository named
"<username>.github.io". Unlike the project site, user sites should be
deployed to the `master` branch. This means that you want to write your
site's content on the `develop` branch, or some other branch that isn't
`master`, and then configure your deploy like so:

    deploy:
        $class: Statocles::Deploy::Git
        branch: master

You can configure the default branch in Github so that users are given
the `develop` branch instead of `master` by default. See your
repository's Settings tab for information.

### Custom Git Hosting

To make a custom server that works similarly to Github Pages, we can use
[Git hooks](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks) to
automatically copy our site content into our web server directory.
I recommend using [Gitolite](http://gitolite.com) to manage a remote Git
server, but you can also [simply use SSH to host
Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-on-the-Server-Setting-Up-the-Server).

First, lets configure our deploy object to deploy to the `deploy`
branch:

    deploy:
        $class: Statocles::Deploy::Git
        branch: deploy

Next, we'll create a Git post-receive hook on the server. Hooks are
simple shell scripts that get run during certain events in the
repository. The post-receive hook is run after someone pushes new
content to this repository. Our hook goes in the `hooks` directory,
should be named `post-receive`, and must be marked as executable (`chmod
+x hooks/post-receive`).

Our hook contains simply this `git checkout` command, which checks out
the `deploy` branch to the `/var/www/example.com` directory:

    #!/bin/sh
    GIT_WORK_TREE=/var/www/example.com git checkout -f deploy

Now whenever we push new content to our remote server, the new content
will be deployed to our web server. Remember to make sure that the web
server directory is writable by the user hosting the Git repositories!

# See Also

* [The Install guide](../install)
* [The Content guide](../content)
* [The Theme guide](../theme)
* [The Develop guide](../develop)

