Astro::FITS::CFITSIO::FileName

CFITSIO packs a lot of functionality into a filename; it can include row
and column filtering, binning and histogramming, image slicing, etc. It
can be handy to manipulate the various parts that make up a fully
specified CFITSIO filename.

Astro::FITS::CFITSIO::FileName slices and dices a CFITSIO extended
filename into its constituent pieces. Or, given the constituent pieces,
it can craft an extended CFITSIO filename.

Documentation for the CFITSIO extended filename syntax is available in
Chapter 10 of

  https://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/software/fitsio/c/c_user/cfitsio.html

  Warning!

This module does not actually parse row filters, so it's possible that
it'll confuse an illegal component as one. For example, in this example,
"foo.fits[1:512]", the illegal, partial image specification "[1:512]"
will be identified as a row filter. Oops.

  So many object attributes!

There are many attributes that an object might have; most are optional.
Each optional attribute has a corresponding predicate method ("has_XXX")
which will return true if the attribute was set. For example, the
"pix_filter" attribute is optional; to check if it was set, use the
"has_pix_filter" method.

  Manipulating a filename

Astro::FITS::CFITSIO::FileName objects are meant to be immutable, so
manipulating attributes has to be done outside of the object.

One way is to call the "parse_filename" class method on the original
filename. It returns a hash of attributes. Another is to call the
"to_hash" object method, which returns a hash of attributes for a
particular object. Both of these hashes may be fed into the class
constructor.

INSTALLATION

This is a Perl module distribution. It should be installed with whichever
tool you use to manage your installation of Perl, e.g. any of

  cpanm .
  cpan  .
  cpanp -i .

Consult http://www.cpan.org/modules/INSTALL.html for further instruction.
Should you wish to install this module manually, the procedure is

  perl Build.PL
  ./Build
  ./Build test
  ./Build install

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2021 by Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007
