Sendmail::PMilter
=================

Sendmail::PMilter makes it possible - in fact easy - to write milters
for the Sendmail or Postfix Mail Transfer Agents in pure Perl.

Sendmail::PMilter provides a set of functions which replace those in
the 'libmilter' library supplied with Sendmail, plus some constants
which are needed to support milters which make use of of the Milter
Protocol - especially Version 6 of the Protocol.  Sendmail itself has
supported the Milter Protocol by default since 2004.  It provides the
optional 'libmilter' which is written in C.  For Perl milters this can
be replaced by Sendmail::PMilter.  Perl milters using Sendmail::PMilter
do not need the 'libmilter' library, and the 'libmilter' provided by
Sendmail need not be built unless it is needed by other milters.

Sendmail::PMilter supports Milter Protocol Version 6 'negotiation'.

Sendmail::PMilter supports both IPv4 and IPv6.

For installation instructions see the file named INSTALL.  If during
installation the standard procedures are followed, then the tests in
t/ will be run automatically before the final installation step.

Alternatively you can just copy these two files somewhere where your
Perl will be able to find them:

lib/Sendmail/PMilter.pm
lib/Sendmail/PMilter/Context.pm

As of 2022 this author has been using Sendmail::PMilter routinely to
handle modest volumes of mail for about five years.  Nevertheless it
might be best to consider this as a test release.  You should be very
familiar with milters and mail processing systems so that you can cope
easily if things go horribly wrogn.

Enjoy!

Ged Haywood, July 2022.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
For copyright/license terms see the file named LICENCE.

Comments via the CPAN bug tracking system will be most welcome.

Ged Haywood, BSc (1st hons 1975), CEng, MIET, MRIN, 1st dan (BJA);
RNLI Life Governor; RSPB Life Fellow; Woodland Trust Life Member;
PPL(H); RYA Yachmaster; NVQ level 4 (motorcycle); unicyclist; Perl
coder and mail administrator since 1995.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
